first the agenda the first item is call
order which I'm doing second item is
public speak
anyone I'm G to go real quick
anyone okay um three discussion and
possible action on the draft Charter
report so um what I would like to do is
um I I'll I'll I'll go first for the
board of elect um I was also on the
ision commission um and I just want to
express what was done so everybody
understands um the majority of these
items that are done were not what I
wanted done I I had a different agenda
uh knowing that we needed to move a
charter revision committee to get on the
November election ballot so that we have
the majority of the Town residents that
would come and would vote Yes or no
because in my mind um when we do these
types of things it's it's appropriate to
go to referendum and to have the
greatest number of residents that can
vote on a subject that's going to impact
the entire town it's very important
because the town meeting while there
it's great it's 50 people who really do
and I agree with Mr Mrs Hutchinson uh
and when she says those are the people
who are committed that come to the town
meetings but we have a a town of 2500
residents uh and voters that we sit
there and have to include now when I
want what I want had done was a Town
Council form of government the charter
revision committee chose not to take
that up which I was I'm okay I do
believe there would be better form of
governing the town where you take a
seven member board combine the board of
finance and the board of Selectmen and
you allow one board who hopefully you
get seven good committed people to sit
there and deal with the finances and the
U the direction of the community that's
what I wanted to do that got off the
table now what we did and what happened
is as Eric well positioned these he's
like we and these would be the questions
on the ballot that would go in some
manner I'm not detail I'm just giving
you
generalizations November elections make
sense you know we need to be in November
elections the town clerk moving from
elected to appointed makes sense we can
vote yes or no on that ordinances
slightly more confrontational more but
it's giving the board that you elected
the position within town to create
ordinances and then we worked as a
committee and bent over backwards to try
to make the petitioning process as easy
as possible for the for the
residents and we we didn't you know the
whole goal ended up being efficiency so
that we wouldn't redo things we wouldn't
call our community members to come to
meetings over and over and over again
because we as a board could sit there
and say we want a special meeting all
the time and we're dragging you out all
the time that's not what we want you
guys don't want to come to these
meetings all the time so we attempted we
were attempting to try to get these to
push into a referendum at the two major
elections now one thing I will agree
with Mrs Hutchinson the older M 10% I
can I can live withing that I can tell
the rest of the board I could live with
taking 10% out of the elected number
because you should always have more than
10% because we're consolidating the
budget votes that's what also one of the
functional things we're doing is
consolidating the budget votes so that
both budgets are voting on at the same
time you should get more than 200 people
at that election but if you don't and
there's a there's an ordinance on it
fine up or down 50% yes or no I get it
so I would agree with that
that point the financial thresholds
which is the the other
item we're running at the town with a an
operating budget of two two $4 million
and if you look at the town it's $4
million from the town $4 million for AES
and $4 million for rent the thresholds
are extremely low and they call for Town
meetings to be called when we don't hit
those thresholds so we're just bumping
them up slightly right we're not taking
any of the financial issues away from
the town meeting still having a town
meeting the only thing that we're
dealing with is as soon as the town
meeting is over and the town meeting
votes to either lower a line or the
total budget that budget goes right to
referendum for the rest of the community
to vote on so that was that part of it
and then there's just minor language
issues as Eric was talking about that
were in the
charter that really be
fixed so that's why we that's why it was
done why I've been charion commission
did it and I'll actually tell you that
that was the first chter revision
commission I was on uh I thought it was
incredibly well run Bob hamurger did a
great job Carol Lee was on so anyone who
sits there and says that the town clerk
issue didn't get addressed by the Tom
clerk she may not vote for it but that's
why we do these processes to give an
opportunity for yes no just like the
last Charter revision I was a not vote I
lost I didn't want the bifurcation of
the budget because I think it creates it
creates problems within the community
it's US versus them with the Board of
Education I didn't want that and I even
voted to send it to referendum because
that's what it's about you send things
to referendum and you let the community
vote on it so if the community of Andor
wants to vote and votes on a bifurcation
of the budget then so be it wasn't what
I wanted and that's how I think these
things should work I just think it
should go forward and and be dumb and
and you want to vote no on a topic vote
no you want to go out and campaign to
vote no on the topic go out and campaign
for it I'm okay with that and I live
with results but I think it's being done
for efficiency this whole power grab
thing do you think anyone on this board
is up here because they have power none
of us work for this community any none
of us sit there and get paid none of us
sit there and get a thrill out of having
power for something overall in this time
let me tell you that was ended when Eric
stepped into the town Administration
creation so as far as I'm concerned it's
about efficiency and it's about getting
the most voice out of the most people so
that they can vote things up or down
appropriately next Jeff you
want just just to mention the ordinances
I mean only ordinances we pass are
ordinances that we get emails about and
suggestions to do like one of the things
we're working on right now is the dog
issue at the ball fields people are
running their dogs and the dogs are
defecating on the ball fields and people
are emailing us wanting an ordinance you
know to something with teeth that we can
go after these dog owners that are
letting their dogs around on the ball
field so we're not going to propose
anything that's people don't want and
we're proposing what people email us and
tell us what they want to do and those
are the things that we're trying to do
so
um my thought after listening to
everybody today is that I can see the
ordinances going to referendum but I
would think maybe we should have if we
want to put forward an
ordinance anything for the six months up
to election or a referendum we send them
all to that referendum and have the town
people vote on all of them instead of go
through this
petition that's my
thought Scott all these things that uh
we've been talking about tonight are all
things that we've been through you know
we've been on the boards and the boards
previous to this all these are problems
that we've come up with over the years
that are finally getting straightened
out so that that's why they're all it's
not some
conspiracy nothing to hurt anybody
nobody here wants that we all want to
straighten things out to make the town
move smoothly that's all we want here
and I think they did a good job of it
it's a lot of you know up and down you
got to figure it all out but we all did
it for the betterment of the
Town
Paul I think you all said what I was
thinking actually Jeff Murray brought a
good point about the ordinance we you
know we're we're reading the Facebook
post
the emails we're we're listening to our
neighbors um we live in town too so we
we don't want to pass something that's
going to you know affect us negatively
too so um I think Jeff just really
summarized that I mean we've go to
meetings people have told us you know
like the thing about the ball fields
we've seen the Facebook posts we've seen
the emails and it's just people want us
to do something that's what we're going
to do I mean we haven't heard anything
that people want to run their dogs on
the Ballfield just people for dogs just
one while down there it's I'm down there
every
day getting people off that ball field
every day and it's the same people all
the time with eight signs around the
field y all we want to do is get some
teeth to put the minor ordinance in
Define to find procedure for people
doing you know going against the
ordinance and bringing their dogs on the
ball field we got kids play on I don't
think we want our kids running in F's a
dog in this case there will be no minor
or major or it'll just be an ordinance
that's all we're trying to get to at
this point is put an ordinance for and I
honestly believe that we
went well outside of the normal scope of
trying to allow people to petition for
an ordinance to sit there and get that
ordinance on a b
so I I just sit there and I go the
petition process is in place and I'm
sorry I maybe I'm just it's 50 signat if
I felt strongly that a future board of
Selectmen did something that I
absolutely disagreed with I would be
going to every one of you in this room
and I be saying please sign this paper
so it can go on the ballot and it it's
not it's not that hard I'm sorry even if
I don't want to vote Yes or no it could
go on the ballot and you could do that
with every ordinance we put forward you
could get 50 signatures and it's going
to go on the back unless you believe
that hey it's a reasonably good
can
I this is
obvious answer how many more members
were on that committee I was you only
one okay so the rest of the
committee talked about the petition
process and felt like it was a good
thing to move forward to tonight I'm
just stting the off they all voted for
it I mean and and what we did is and
Shannon listened to that one meeting
because I was one in in charge of the
ordinance section of this there were
every other member had a different
section doesn't like we sat there and
Jeff Maguire drove the entire issue it
was everybody had an issue somebody had
you know the the November election
somebody had the town clerk somebody had
the financial ramifications of the thing
and each member he did a he did a really
good job did a very good job of doing it
my job was to sit there and go and I
went with everybody who had an issue as
to okay if we do a petition how would it
work and we extended the petition from
20 days to 45 days to 20 days within the
45 days until the mailer is received by
the entire Community outlining the
ordinance we were incredibly detailed
and and to be really honest the to
attorney said I was crazy because he's
like it's only 20 days I said no I said
it's the process that everybody has a
chance to sit there and get 50
signatures you you can't get 50
signatures in 20 days I am sorry our our
democracy is done so um just I was
looking here at 301 it says the um
including but not listed to the
authority to approve and enact repal and
modify all ordinances after a public
hearing and also those powers ener for
to so we would discuss an ordinance and
then post that we're having a public
hearing the next month
and so then people can come and express
their opinion so you know whether or not
it's going to be a no from most people
or possible that's it okay that's pretty
much required by state law did you have
a public hearing before you enact an
ordinance you could probably do it in a
charter and get rid of the public
hearing nobody does everybody does
public and an just so you're clear and
everybody else is clear we do that the
ordinance does not take effect until 45
days so the way I Envision this is the
board of Selectmen has a meeting that's
30 days later we have a second meeting
so we're going to get feedback from a
public hearing we're going to get
feedback at our second Board of Select
me meeting we don't have to put anything
up the board of Select me can say no at
any time to any ordinance that he wants
and the board of Select has the
authority to repeal any ordinance at any
time
as if we're taking anything away from
the public you've elected us to do a job
we're sitting there trying to do the
best job that we can and then if you
don't like what we're doing well you
vote a Sol but if you don't like what
we're doing on an ordinance you get 20
50 signatures it goes on the ballot of
the entire
to it's simple I'm just breaking it down
simply but that's what this is about so
in the end it doesn't go into effect it
does not go into effect
believe um somebody said that that
signatures that didn't count there's a
special form you have to get from the
town clerk is that correct that's right
has
the AAL form and make sure it's
all and we talked about that within the
mailer that needs to go out to the
community to sit there and have on the
mailer explanations of the petitioning
process and what they need to do the
petition valid petition would be in the
town C's office it needs to be sat there
and set up and you go forward and do it
but I'm sorry 50
signatures I mean it's just
me
exactly the transfer station you can get
50 signatures in an hour register
ERS
anyway so anyway anybody else on the
board of Select want to talk about any
of the specific issues that were
raised I I have a I have a question but
go
ahead so I think it was brought up
tonight that there was a section
missing um there's sections deleted all
over the place in that chart right so I
guess my general question is if we want
to move forward with this and we we need
to if we decide to fix that how do we
handle that well the only we be doing
tonight is voting on the draft from the
charter you know committee and then what
would happen is we would then create
questions that would have to be
submitted to Secretary of State's office
that would go on the ballot so yester so
everybody would have the right to vote
Yes or vote no on any specific topic
that is addressed there'll probably be
six or seven seven that would end up
being on the charter like the Ordinance
one would be one if you don't want the
Ordinance one to go into effect you vote
no if you want November elections to be
there you vote Yes I mean you know point
is that you you don't have to vote on
that exactly could
changes we can sit there and refer
anything back to the Char revision
commission if we choose to Y so that's
what the board has the power to do we
either have the power to accept it in
its entirety or push a portion of it
back to the Charter revision Commission
because believe if you do that you'll
have to do it pretty soon if you want to
make the deadline in order to get under
the ballot but you can't you have enough
time because you would have to get I
would say your next meeting is I believe
on the 11th your next regular meeting
you would have to do that at that
meeting have a a joint meeting with the
Char revision commission and U discuss
your differences because this is their
proposal do we have to have well let's
do the logistics so let's there say Mrs
Hutchinson's 10% we want to remove what
do we need to you would have to meet
with the charion commission and your
next invite them to your next Board of
select a meeting have a joint meeting
with them and try to come to an
agreement on that and that probably
wouldn't be too difficult but
uh you know if you if that's the only
question you have it would't be too
difficult at all it all
think so we would have to have a special
Char of revision commission before Bo no
you can we did it that way last time
Lester two years ago
right no requirement to come back to
this group and do this all over again no
okay then no the law only requires one
public he okay for the board of all
right then then I would like to make a
motion to um accept all the charter the
draft report in its entirety with the
exception of eliminating the 10% voting
reement for um
referend discussion on anything
else all right all those in favor I all
right so just so everybody here
understands the questions will be
drafted right after we get back with the
charter revision Commission on the 10%
questions will be drafted they'll be
available for everybody to understand
and then you can campaign yes or no up
or down related all these items will
they put on the website they will
they'll be ready before the meeting on
the 11th they'll be ready now what about
the definition of Mind versus now just
ordinances because right now we may we
may change that in accordance with one
of the sections that will be uh minor
language changes because that'll be an
up or down and those minor language
changes will be a little bit more
detailed that you probably well that
impacts that that section impacts the uh
the issue of the
of how we do ordinances so it is
included in that let me let me say
something about that cine and and Scott
I realized I'm I'm as obsessive
compulsive as anybody believe me and I
realize that that's a definition section
it's no longer a definition if minor
ordinance is taken out of there that's
but but to insist that it that it not
stay there the way it's written is being
overly obsessive compulsive because
sooner or later that will disappear from
Charter and it will only be a matter of
History all the town clerk's office has
every Charter that's ever been done in
there you can the history it's important
to preserve the history but I I think
the best way to address that issue of
the minor ordinances is the way that
it's written even though it's not a
definition anymore it was it's just
being your moves so it's telling you
what's being done with it so you saying
it'll just say it says minor will just
say ordinances that's right okay there
we because the question Catherine of
deciding what is a minor ordinance and
what is not what it comes down to it's
so generally stated that it comes down
to me because I'm the town attorney and
I say okay I think it's minor all right
I'd rather not do that uh I'd rather
just have ordinances and have them all
acted on the same as any other words it
usually comes down to money and Fs
I mean there are some that are obviously
uh minor but sometimes it's a close call
uh anyone else have anything before we
move on okay so we're going to move on
to uh item four public speak anyone else
excuse me you take a v that
we Mar uh one thing uh is I got to admit
that the um the thought of getting
signatures even if it's 50 you may seem
like it's not a lot but thinking if I
got to get 50 signatures that's going to
take a lot cuz I could take an hour and
talk to four people you know so if
there's a way to make that easier maybe
even online an online you know uh
something on the website I don't know
question I don't know just something
that's easier understood jul um er talk
about um certain items you mentioned
section 304
at
72 the term reasonable governance seemed
to make a lot of sense to me that the
kind of thing he was talking
about should be
included whatever you come back
again
know so so just so you understand you
question
you want the questions written in such a
way to approach what Eric told us well
and to include what he suggested as
they're all any already yeah that's
right the question will be written in
more general terms but we'll make sure
that Julia that encompasses all of those
all those issues about thresholds
both Scott and I pointed out to the
commission just a bunch of things minor
changes that you said that need to be
made to make the charter um flow matter
well not just that comport with it's
actual language it refers to um
Provisions that don't exist anymore and
whatnot how might those be addressed
would they be put to a question or it
probably would be better if the board of
selectman I don't know passes on those
so that they don't even have to be
addressed it's well there cosmetic that
can be handled
by the S right okay we'll sit there tell
you about those right shanon in in my
mind there's there's one question that's
a minor language question and that would
fall in under the thank you just I can't
speak for Don certainly don't want to
but from my perspective power grab was
not individual it was an Institutional
thing it's saying that the board of
Select as an institution is taking
Authority that is not the town meeting
it's not me all
I
[Applause]
took I would just like to comment that
the term minor ordinance that was used
initially it would appear that that was
an intention not to include all
ordinances the removal of the word minor
will not include all
ordinances thank you anyone
else all right
motion all those in favor all right
thank you very much